# [***<span class="underline">2020 Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. r. 183-1-1-.01</span>***](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=administrative-codes&id=urn:contentItem:621K-R6P1-DXJ3-X158-00000-00&context=1000516)

2020 Georgia Administrative Code Archive

***RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA* \> *TITLE 183: RULES
OF STATE ELECTION BOARD* \> *CHAPTER 183-1 GEORGIA ELECTION CODE* \>
*SUBJECT 183-1-1 PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS* \> *183-1-1-.01 Procedure to
Petition for Adoption of Rules***

**183-1-1-.01 Procedure to Petition for Adoption of Rules**

> **(1)** Interested persons may petition the State Election Board
> requesting the promulgation, amendment, or repeal of a rule. Such
> petition should be in the form of a letter addressed to the Board
> setting forth the language of the proposed rule, amendment, or repeal,
> and, where applicable, the language of the rule sought to be amended
> or repealed.
>
> **(2)** Any interested person desiring to petition the Board
> requesting the promulgation, amendment, or repeal of a rule shall
> submit three copies of the petition, in writing, by certified or
> registered mail, to the Chairperson of the State Election Board, 2
> Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, S.E., Suite 1104, West Tower, Atlanta,
> Georgia 30334-9000.
>
> **(3)** Each petition for the promulgation, amendment, or repeal of a
> rule made pursuant to the Georgia Administrative Procedures Act should
> be verified under oath, or in proper behalf of, the petitioner and
> shall contain:
>
> **(a)** The name and post office address of the petitioner;
>
> **(b)** The full text of the rule requested to be amended or repealed,
> or the full text of the rule desired to be promulgated;
>
> **(c)** The reason(s) such rule should be amended, repealed, or
> promulgated;
>
> **(d)** Any and all pertinent existing facts as to the petitioner's
> interest in the matter;
>
> **(e)** Any and all facts known to the petitioner which might
> influence the decision of the Board to initiate or not initiate
> rulemaking, including identification of any parties who it is known
> will or may be affected by the amended, repealed, or promulgated rule;
> and
>
> **(f)** Citations of legal authorities, if any, which authorize,
> support, or require the action requested by the petitioner.
>
> **(4)** Within thirty (30) days after submission of a petition for the
> promulgation, amendment, or repeal of a rule or at the next
> regularly-scheduled meeting of the State Election Board, the Board
> shall decide upon the action to be taken. The Board shall not be
> forced to call a special meeting in order to address such a petition.
> If such a petition is received less than twenty (20) days before a
> regularly-scheduled meeting, the Board may vote to address the
> petition at its next regularly-scheduled meeting. Within ten (10) days
> after addressing the petition, the Board shall inform the petitioner
> by mail of the decision reached, and shall either decline to take the
> action requested, stating its reasons for so declining, or shall
> initiate rule-making proceedings in accordance with the Georgia
> Administrative Procedures Act.

**Statutory Authority**

Authority O.C.G.A. Secs. 50-13-3, 50-13-17.

**History**

Original Rule entitled "Procedure to Petition for Adoption of Rules"
adopted. F. Feb. 22, 2008; eff. Mar. 13, 2008.

RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA

Copyright © 2021, Lawriter LLC All Rights Reserved.

> **End of Document**
